>> Zac Gordon: One of the biggest things
that's come out lately is a product called
Calypso.
And so Calypso is built on React,
it's completely a single
page web app design and not only does it
rebuild the entire admin area of WordPress
in JavaScript in React, but it also has
other abilities like checking stats.
Letting you manage multiple
blogs all in one place.
Letting you track and read other
people's blogs all from one admin area.
And so Calypso was put out
by the folks at Automatic.
And this is where if you're not
as familiar with WordPress,
it's important to make a distinction.
There's something called WordPress.org,
which is the open source version of
WordPress that we're working with
today and that you could download and
run in your site or run locally.
And then you have WordPress.com,
which is a hosted version of WordPress.
Free to use but paid features, and
this is run by a company automatic.
So automatic has contributors that
work full time on WordPress, but
also on Calypso.
So now there are people who's jobs
are just to support the software.
Now, you can not easily just take
Calypso as this new admin interface and
run it in a .org installation it's
really set up for the .com environment.
And it's doing some things
like some node interactions
that you cannot do on a traditional
WordPress server because it's PHP based.
But, this is a pretty big
move because right after
the API became available to do this stuff
this was dropped and made quite a splash.
I'm a pretty big fan of it, I try to use
WordPress.com on some of my projects,
just so
I can stay exposed to these things.
And one of the nice things about it
is because it's JavaScript based,
it's not hard to roll out a desktop
version of it and mobile versions for
Android and iPhone that are all native.
But are also running on
the same rough JavaScript base.
So, the influence of Calypso
should not be underestimated.
Even though I'd say the majority
of WordPress users and
people unless your on .com,
they don't use it.
They're not contributing to it but
because you
have such a big company that has such a
big influence on the future and direction.
The fact that this big software
that is used in production and
is based on React has some influencing
power on the JavaScript world today.